As-it-happened: US protesters take to streets defying curfews - BBC News , Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help Sign inNotifications Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds More Search Search the BBCSearch the BBCBBC News News NavigationSections Home Coronavirus Video WorldWorld selected UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check More More sections World selected Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & CanadaUS & Canada selectedAs-it-happened: US protesters take to streets defying curfewsPlay video Protesters tear-gassed so Trump can walk to church from BBCVideo Protesters tear-gassed so Trump can walk to churchBBC 2:00 3 June 20203 June 2020Live Reporting Edited by Paulin Kola All times stated are UK Get involved Get involved Send an email to haveyoursay@bbc.co.ukGet involvedWe are pausing our live coverageMinneapolis Public Schools votes to end contract with police'De-fund the police'Woman charged for driving into policeProtests intensify coronavirus fearsNYPD hunting down lootersCuomo must put rioting down - TrumpCrowds disperse in Atlanta after defying curfew'I lost my best friend in a police shooting'Investigation into use of helicopters in DCAthlete tests positive for Covid-19 after protestIn pictures: Protests continue nationwideTrump defends photo-op outside churchPolice officers and military kneel with protestersJay-Z dedicates full-page ad to FloydHere's what you need to knowSoldiers deployed to Washington DC areaTrump pays tribute to shot police chiefProtesters defy curfews across the countryReport: Feds can spy on protesters , Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help Sign inNotifications Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds More Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC BBC News News NavigationSections Home Coronavirus Video WorldWorld selected UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check More More sections World selected Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & CanadaUS & Canada selected Media player Close player Close player Close player As-it-happened: US protesters take to streets defying curfewsPlay video Protesters tear-gassed so Trump can walk to church from BBCVideo Protesters tear-gassed so Trump can walk to churchBBC 2:00 3 June 20203 June 2020 Related Video and Audio Video 1 minute 39 seconds Video 1 minute 39 seconds1:39 Play video Trudeau's epic pause when asked about Trump and protests from BBCTrudeau's epic pause when asked about Trump and protests BBCPlay video Trudeau's epic pause when asked about Trump and protests from BBC Video 1 minute 34 seconds Video 1 minute 34 seconds1:34 Play video Uplifting moments from peaceful George Floyd protests from BBCUplifting moments from peaceful George Floyd protests BBCPlay video Uplifting moments from peaceful George Floyd protests from BBC Video 1 minute 33 seconds Video 1 minute 33 seconds1:33 Play video 'This is why we are protesting' from BBC'This is why we are protesting' BBCPlay video 'This is why we are protesting' from BBC Video 1 minute 15 seconds Video 1 minute 15 seconds1:15 Play video 'This is pain right here': Protests in Washington DC from BBC'This is pain right here': Protests in Washington DC BBCPlay video 'This is pain right here': Protests in Washington DC from BBC Video 44 seconds Video 44 seconds0:44 Play video Floyd's brother: 'That's not bringing him back' from BBCFloyd's brother: 'That's not bringing him back' BBCPlay video Floyd's brother: 'That's not bringing him back' from BBC Video 1 minute 20 seconds Video 1 minute 20 seconds1:20 Play video Journalist 'permanently blinded' in one eye from BBCJournalist 'permanently blinded' in one eye BBCPlay video Journalist 'permanently blinded' in one eye from BBC Video 43 seconds Video 43 seconds0:43 Play video Tanker driven at protesters in Minneapolis from BBCTanker driven at protesters in Minneapolis BBCPlay video Tanker driven at protesters in Minneapolis from BBC Video 2 minutes 11 seconds Video 2 minutes 11 seconds2:11 Play video George Floyd death: 'What if that was my brother?' from BBCGeorge Floyd death: 'What if that was my brother?' BBCPlay video George Floyd death: 'What if that was my brother?' from BBC Video 1 minute 33 seconds Video 1 minute 33 seconds1:33 Play video Banjo: 'I looked at George Floyd and saw my dad' from BBCBanjo: 'I looked at George Floyd and saw my dad' BBCPlay video Banjo: 'I looked at George Floyd and saw my dad' from BBC Video 3 minutes 41 seconds Video 3 minutes 41 seconds3:41 Play video ‘As a black American I am terrified’ from BBC‘As a black American I am terrified’ BBCPlay video ‘As a black American I am terrified’ from BBC Video 1 minute 39 seconds Video 1 minute 39 seconds1:39 Play video Killer Mike: 'Do not burn your own house down' from BBCKiller Mike: 'Do not burn your own house down' BBCPlay video Killer Mike: 'Do not burn your own house down' from BBC Video 1 minute 29 seconds Video 1 minute 29 seconds1:29 Play video Minneapolis violence: 'This needs to stop' from BBCMinneapolis violence: 'This needs to stop' BBCPlay video Minneapolis violence: 'This needs to stop' from BBC Video 1 minute 34 seconds Video 1 minute 34 seconds1:34 Play video Ex-officer charged with murder and manslaughter from BBCEx-officer charged with murder and manslaughter BBCPlay video Ex-officer charged with murder and manslaughter from BBC Play video Protesters tear-gassed so Trump can walk to church from BBC Summary Protests in major cities across the US, including New York and Washington, have been largely peaceful Demonstrators defy curfews in dozens of cities as civil unrest continues for an eighth night Thousands have marched through Houston, Texas, including family members of George Floyd And in Washington DC, some 1,600 active soldiers have been flown in to bases around the city President Trump earlier said he would deploy the army if cities and states failed to control the protests Live Reporting Edited by Paulin Kola All times stated are UK Get involved Get involved Send an email to haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Posted at 23:36 2 Jun23:36 2 Jun We are pausing our live coverage Protesters across the US have continued to vent their fury at the death of George Floyd at the hands of police officers in Minneapolis. In major cities like New York and Washington DC, the protests have been largely peaceful, though demonstrators continued to march late into the night and defied city-wide curfews. In other key developments: The state of Minnesota filed a civil rights charge against their police department over George Floyd's death. Governor Tim Walz told reporters that the probe will be designed to root out "systemic racism that is generations deep" Elsewhere, crowds gathered in Floyd's hometown of Houston, Texas, for a peaceful march alongside his family And in Washington DC, some 1,600 active soldiers have been flown in to bases around the city. A Pentagon spokesman said the move was a "prudent planning measure" and the troops were on “heightened alert status” We are closing our live coverage for now, but you can continue to follow updates across the BBC News website. Getty ImagesCopyright: Getty Images Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 23:34 2 Jun23:34 2 Jun Minneapolis Public Schools votes to end contract with police The Minneapolis Public Schools (MPS) Board of Education has endorsed a resolution to immediately cancel its contract with the Minneapolis Police Department. The schools are currently provided with security officers on site at every location, and the board was assessing its plans for the next academic year. "We must take all actions within our power to stop systems of oppression," MPS Board Chair Kim Ellison said in a statement. "For the MPS School Board, that means discontinuing our contractual relationship with the Minneapolis Police Department." Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 23:28 2 Jun23:28 2 Jun 'De-fund the police' Hundreds of protesters gathered at Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti’s residence, urging him to "de-fund the police" and sack the city’s police chief, Michel R. Moore. Moore came under heavy criticism on Monday after suggesting that looters bore equal responsibility for the death of George Floyd as the Minneapolis police officers involved - a statement he later apologised for. Social embed from twitter ReportReport this social embed, make a complaint Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 23:26 2 Jun23:26 2 Jun Woman charged for driving into police A Buffalo woman has been charged after driving her car into a group of police officers on Monday night, injuring three of them. Deyanna Davis, 31, faces several charges, including aggravated assault on a police officer and second-degree criminal possession of a weapon, New York State Police annonced . Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 23:07 2 Jun23:07 2 Jun Protests intensify coronavirus fears The Associated Press news agency has analysed protests over the past few days and found that demostrations over the killing of George Floyd had been held in every one of the 25 US communities with the highest concentrations of new cases. There are growing fears that the tightly packed streets and squares with people often not even wearing and face masks could lead to a spike in the number of new cases. There are currently 1.8 million confirmed cases of coronavirus in the US - with more than 106,000 deaths. AFPCopyright: AFP Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 22:55 2 Jun22:55 2 Jun NYPD hunting down looters The New York Police Department (NYPD) is actively chasing the authors of looting in the city, ABC News reports. The NYPD's Intelligence Bureau was busy tracking down car registration numbers from vehicles that carried vandals, looters and thieves around Manhattan in the last two days, a police official told the US broadcaster. Some of these people had been seen outside shops with sledgehammers, crowbars and power tools, it said - suggesting a degree of planning and organisation. Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 22:46 2 Jun22:46 2 Jun Cuomo must put rioting down - Trump President Trump has berated New York State Governor Andrew Cuomo for the situation in New York. “Chaos, lawlessness, and destruction take over New York," Trump cited Fox News, before asking: "When will Governor Cuomo ask the federal government for help?" NYC is "totally out of control", the president said before calling on the governor to "put down rioting now". AFPCopyright: AFP Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 22:29 2 Jun22:29 2 Jun Crowds disperse in Atlanta after defying curfew Most of the protests across the country were largely peaceful but in Atlanta police fired tear gas to disperse crowds gathered near the city's Centennial Park after the curfew started, according to the Atlanta Journal Constitution. EPACopyright: EPA Protesters were dispersed after the curfew startedImage caption: Protesters were dispersed after the curfew started Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 22:15 2 Jun22:15 2 Jun 'I lost my best friend in a police shooting' Jessica Lussenhop BBC News, Minneapolis BBCCopyright: BBC Greg CrockettImage caption: Greg Crockett After a police officer shot and killed Greg Crockett's best friend, he left Minnesota for good. Then in the aftermath of George Floyd's killing, he decided he couldn't stay away. How everything and nothing changed after the death of Philando Castile. Greg Crockett was sitting in the passenger seat of his grandfather's van when he saw that - in the midst of rapidly escalating protests over the death of an unarmed black man named George Floyd at the hands of a Minneapolis police officer - an auto parts store near his old neighbourhood was on fire. Although he moved away from Minnesota almost two years ago, Crockett told his grandfather he needed to go. In response, his grandfather, a retired Marine, quoted Che Guevara. "The revolution is not an apple that falls when it is ripe. You have to make it fall." Read more here. Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 22:00 2 Jun22:00 2 Jun Investigation into use of helicopters in DC An investigation has been launched into the use of helicopters during the protests in Washington DC on Monday night, the National Guard has announced. Military helicopters were seen hovering low over crowds in the city. The use of a helicopter in this way is a common military tactic used to incite fear and break up crowds, US media report. Social embed from twitter ReportReport this social embed, make a complaint On Tuesday, the District of Columbia National Guard wrote on Twitter that an investigation into its use of helicopters had been ordered. "Our priority is the safety of our guardsmen who support civil authorities," it said. "We are dedicated to ensuring the safety of citizens and their right to protest." Footage widely shared on social media appeared to show a medical helicopter using the wind generated from its rotor blades to disperse crowds. Social embed from twitter ReportReport this social embed, make a complaint Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 21:44 2 Jun21:44 2 Jun Athlete tests positive for Covid-19 after protest American football player Amen Ogbongbemiga has said he tested positive for Covid-19 after attending a protest in Tulsa. The Oklahoma State linebacker said in a tweet that he had been "well protective" of himself and warned others to "take care of yourself" if they were going to protests. Social embed from twitter ReportReport this social embed, make a complaint There are fears that the US could see new outbreaks of coronavirus as thousands continue to gather in close proximity as a result of the ongoing protests. "Based on the way the disease spreads, there is every reason to expect we will see new clusters and potentially new outbreaks moving forward," US Surgeon General Dr Jerome Adams told news site Politico earlier this week. Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 21:31 2 Jun21:31 2 Jun In pictures: Protests continue nationwide Here's what the situation on the ground looked like across some major US cities on Tuesday: Getty ImagesCopyright: Getty Images Thousands of people across New York turned out as protests continued over the death of George FloydImage caption: Thousands of people across New York turned out as protests continued over the death of George Floyd Getty ImagesCopyright: Getty Images In Los Angeles, placards with the phrase Black Lives Matter - a movement in protest against police killings of black people - were seenImage caption: In Los Angeles, placards with the phrase Black Lives Matter - a movement in protest against police killings of black people - were seen Getty ImagesCopyright: Getty Images One man and his one-year-old daughter were among protesters in the Californian city of PasadenaImage caption: One man and his one-year-old daughter were among protesters in the Californian city of Pasadena Getty ImagesCopyright: Getty Images And in Washington DC, police in riot gear were seen through the metal fence in front of the White HouseImage caption: And in Washington DC, police in riot gear were seen through the metal fence in front of the White House Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 21:06 2 Jun21:06 2 Jun Trump defends photo-op outside church ReutersCopyright: Reuters President Donald Trump has defended his decision to stage a photo-op outside a historic church that was caught up in the protests in Washington DC. Police cleared a peaceful protest close by to the church with tear gas and rubber bullets on Monday evening. Moments later, Trump was pictured holding a Bible outside the church. The move was criticised by religious leaders and top Democrats who accused officials of aggressively dispersing peaceful demonstrators for the photo-op. Read more about some of the shock expressed by clerics here. But in a tweet on Tuesday, Trump said: "You got it wrong! "If the protesters were so peaceful, why did they light the church on fire the night before? People liked my walk to this historic place of worship!" You can watch footage of the incident below: Video content Video caption: Watch: Protesters tear-gassed before Trump walks to churchWatch: Protesters tear-gassed before Trump walks to church Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 20:46 2 Jun20:46 2 Jun Police officers and military kneel with protesters Getty ImagesCopyright: Getty Images Members of the US Army National Guard kneel with protesters in LAImage caption: Members of the US Army National Guard kneel with protesters in LA In some US cities, police officers and soldiers have knelt in solidarity with demonstrators. One such city was Los Angeles, where protesters cheered as members of the military took a knee. The demonstrators had reportedly asked the soldiers to march alongside them, but they said they needed to stay in the same place. Social embed from twitter ReportReport this social embed, make a complaint Elsewhere, police officers in Iowa and Georgia also knelt in a display of solidarity. Social embed from twitter ReportReport this social embed, make a complaint ReutersCopyright: Reuters Officers kneel with protesters in AtlantaImage caption: Officers kneel with protesters in Atlanta Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 20:20 2 Jun20:20 2 Jun Jay-Z dedicates full-page ad to Floyd Getty ImagesCopyright: Getty Images The American rapper Jay-Z has taken out a full-page ad in newspapers across the US in honour of George Floyd. The ad, which was shared on Instagram by the rapper's entertainment agency Roc Nation, quotes a passage from a 1965 Martin Luther King Jr address. It has reportedly been placed in major papers such as The New York Times, The Chicago Tribune, The Los Angeles Times and The Denver Post. It was signed by Jay-Z along with families who have lost sons to police violence, along with some advocacy organisations and attorneys. You can see the ad below: Social embed from instagram instagramReportReport this social embed, make a complaint Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 19:56 2 Jun19:56 2 Jun Here's what you need to know Getty ImagesCopyright: Getty Images If you're just joining us, here's what you need to know to bring you up to speed: Protests over the death of African-American George Floyd in police custody are continuing for an eighth consecutive night. Floyd's death in Minneapolis on 25 May sparked civil unrest that has since spread nationwide Demonstrators are defying curfews in major cities, including in New York and Washington DC. At least 40 cities have imposed strict curfew measures The state of Minnesota has filed a civil rights charge against their police department over Floyd's death. Governor Tim Walz told reporters that the probe will be designed to root out "systemic racism that is generations deep" Elsewhere, crowds have gathered in Floyd's hometown of Houston, Texas, for a peaceful march alongside his family. Up to 20,000 people are expected to attend, local media report And in Washington DC, some 1,600 active soldiers have been flown in to bases around the city. A Pentagon spokesman said the troops were on “heightened alert status” Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 19:38 2 Jun19:38 2 Jun Soldiers deployed to Washington DC area Getty ImagesCopyright: Getty Images File photo of US soldiersImage caption: File photo of US soldiers Some 1,600 active duty soldiers have been flown to bases in the Washington DC area over the past 24 hours, the Pentagon says. The move is a "prudent planning measure in response to ongoing support to civil authorities operations", a spokesman said. These soldiers - who were moved from Fort Bragg in North Carolina and Fort Drum in New York - are not currently in DC but are "postured on military bases in the National Capitol Region". The move was authorised by Defence Secretary Mark Esper. Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 18:56 2 Jun18:56 2 Jun Trump pays tribute to shot police chief President Donald Trump has paid tribute to David Dorn, a black police chief who was shot dead during protests in St Louis, Missouri. Dorn, 77, was found dead in front of a pawn shop that was looted in the early hours of Tuesday. He retired from the St Louis police force in 2007 and since then had been serving as the police chief of a small town, ABC News reported . Trump said: "Our highest respect to the family of David Dorn, a Great Police Captain from St. Louis." The president said Dorn had been "viciously shot and killed by despicable looters". No one has yet been arrested, police said. Social embed from twitter ReportReport this social embed, make a complaint Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 18:31 2 Jun18:31 2 Jun Protesters defy curfews across the country Protesters across the US are not letting curfew orders stop them from marching. In Fort Worth, Texas, a small crowd reportedly remained even after a 20:00 curfew came into force: Social embed from twitter ReportReport this social embed, make a complaint Protesters in New York also defied an 20:00 curfew. The city's mayor brought the curfew forward and extended it to a second night after looting erupted in Manhattan on Monday night. Social embed from twitter ReportReport this social embed, make a complaint And in Washington DC, an "enormous crowd" continued to demonstrate past the 19:00 curfew. Social embed from twitter ReportReport this social embed, make a complaint Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Posted at 18:06 2 Jun18:06 2 Jun Report: Feds can spy on protesters The Department of Justice has refused to comment on a report that the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) has been granted new authority to "conduct covert surveillance" and to collect intelligence on people participating in protests. The plan is outlined in a two-page memorandum obtained by Buzzfeed News. The DEA's actions are typically limited to enforcing drug-related federal crime, but on Sunday it received approval to go beyond the agency's mandate to "perform other law enforcement duties", according to the report. The memo indicates that DEA agents would be authorised to share this intelligence with local and state law enforcement authorities, to "intervene" and to "protect both participants and spectators in the protests", and to arrest protesters who are alleged to have violated federal law. Three DEA sources told BuzzFeed News they were troubled by the memo and see it as an example of the justice department potentially abusing its power in an attempt to smear the protesters. Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this linkRead more about these links. Page 1 of 11 rewind previous Navigate to the next page nextNavigate to the last page forward Back to top News Navigation SectionsSections BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My InfoCopyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.