Cake - Wikipedia ,  , Cake From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Baked dessert For other uses, see Cake (disambiguation). "Cake slice" redirects here. For the item of cutlery, see Cake and pie server. This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Cake" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Cake Layered pound cake filled with raspberry jam and lemon curd, and finished with buttercream frosting Course Dessert Main ingredients Usually flour, salt, sugar, eggs, butter, or oil Cookbook: Cake Media: Cake Birthday fruit cake Chocolate cupcakes with cream icing and red sprinkles Raisin cake Cake is a form of sweet food made from flour, sugar, and other ingredients, that is usually baked. In their oldest forms, cakes were modifications of bread, but cakes now cover a wide range of preparations that can be simple or elaborate, and that share features with other desserts such as pastries, meringues, custards, and pies. The most commonly used cake ingredients include flour, sugar, eggs, butter or oil or margarine, a liquid, and leavening agents, such as baking soda or baking powder. Common additional ingredients and flavourings include dried, candied, or fresh fruit, nuts, cocoa, and extracts such as vanilla, with numerous substitutions for the primary ingredients. Cakes can also be filled with fruit preserves, nuts or dessert sauces (like pastry cream), iced with buttercream or other icings, and decorated with marzipan, piped borders, or candied fruit.[1] Cake is often served as a celebratory dish on ceremonial occasions, such as weddings, anniversaries, and birthdays. There are countless cake recipes; some are bread-like, some are rich and elaborate, and many are centuries old. Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure; while at one time considerable labor went into cake making (particularly the whisking of egg foams), baking equipment and directions have been simplified so that even the most amateur of cooks may bake a cake. Contents 1 History 1.1 Cake mixes 2 Varieties 3 Special-purpose cakes 4 Shapes 5 Cake flour 6 Cooking 7 Cake decorating 8 See also 9 References 10 External links History The term "cake" has a long history. The word itself is of Viking origin, from the Old Norse word "kaka".[2] The ancient Greeks called cake πλακοῦς (plakous), which was derived from the word for "flat", πλακόεις (plakoeis). It was baked using flour mixed with eggs, milk, nuts, and honey. They also had a cake called "satura", which was a flat heavy cake. During the Roman period, the name for cake became "placenta" which was derived from the Greek term. A placenta was baked on a pastry base or inside a pastry case.[3] The Greeks invented beer as a leavener, frying fritters in olive oil, and cheesecakes using goat's milk.[4] In ancient Rome, the basic bread dough was sometimes enriched with butter, eggs, and honey, which produced a sweet and cake-like baked good.[5] Latin poet Ovid refers to his and his brother's birthday party and cake in his first book of exile, Tristia.[6] Early cakes in England were also essentially bread: the most obvious differences between a "cake" and "bread" were the round, flat shape of the cakes, and the cooking method, which turned cakes over once while cooking, while bread was left upright throughout the baking process.[5] Sponge cakes, leavened with beaten eggs, originated during the Renaissance, possibly in Spain.[7] Cake mixes Main article: Baking mix Cake mix in plastic packets During the Great Depression, there was a surplus of molasses and the need to provide easily made food to millions of economically depressed people in the United States.[8] One company patented a cake-bread mix to deal with this economic situation, and thereby established the first line of cake in a box. In so doing, cake, as it is known today, became a mass-produced good rather than a home- or bakery-made specialty. Later, during the post-war boom, other American companies (notably General Mills) developed this idea further, marketing cake mix on the principle of convenience, especially to housewives. When sales dropped heavily in the 1950s, marketers discovered that baking cakes, once a task at which housewives could exercise skill and creativity, had become dispiriting. This was a period in American ideological history when women, retired from the war-time labor force, were confined to the domestic sphere, while still exposed to the blossoming consumerism in the US.[9] This inspired psychologist Ernest Dichter to find a solution to the cake mix problem in the frosting.[10] Since making the cake was so simple, housewives and other in-home cake makers could expend their creative energy on cake decorating inspired by, among other things, photographs in magazines of elaborately decorated cakes. Ever since cake in a box has become a staple of supermarkets and is complemented with frosting in a can. Varieties Cranberry coffee cake A fudge cake is a type of chocolate cake Cakes are broadly divided into several categories, based primarily on ingredients and mixing techniques. Although clear examples of the difference between cake and bread are easy to find, the precise classification has always been elusive.[5] For example, banana bread may be properly considered either a quick bread or a cake. Butter cakes are made from creamed butter, sugar, eggs, and flour. They rely on the combination of butter and sugar beaten for an extended time to incorporate air into the batter.[11] A classic pound cake is made with a pound each of butter, sugar, eggs, and flour. Baking powder is in many butter cakes, such as Victoria sponge.[12] The ingredients are sometimes mixed without creaming the butter, using recipes for simple and quick cakes. Sponge cakes (or foam cakes) are made from whipped eggs, sugar, and flour. They rely primarily on trapped air in a protein matrix (generally of beaten eggs) to provide leavening, sometimes with a bit of baking powder or other chemical leaven added as insurance. Sponge cakes are thought to be the oldest cakes made without yeast. An angel food cake is a white sponge cake that uses only the whites of the eggs and is traditionally baked in a tube pan. The French Génoise is a sponge cake that includes clarified butter. Highly decorated sponge cakes with lavish toppings are sometimes called gateau, the French word for cake. Chiffon cakes are sponge cakes with vegetable oil, which adds moistness.[13] Chocolate cakes are butter cakes, sponge cakes, or other cakes flavored with melted chocolate or cocoa powder.[14] German chocolate cake is a variety of chocolate cake. Fudge cakes are chocolate cakes that contain fudge. Coffee cake is generally thought of as a cake to serve with coffee or tea at breakfast or a coffee break. Some types use yeast as a leavening agent while others use baking soda or baking powder. These cakes often have a crumb topping called streusel or a light glaze drizzle. Baked flourless cakes include baked cheesecakes and flourless chocolate cakes. Cheesecakes, despite their name, aren't cakes at all. Cheesecakes are custard pies, with a filling made mostly of some form of cheese (often cream cheese, mascarpone, ricotta, or the like), and have very little flour added, although a flour-based or graham cracker crust may be used. Cheesecakes are also very old, with evidence of honey-sweetened cakes dating back to ancient Greece. Butter or oil layer cakes include most of the traditional cakes used as birthday cakes, etc., and those sold as packaged cakes. Baking powder or bicarbonate of soda is used to provide both lift and a moist texture. Many flavorings and ingredients may be added; examples include devil's food cake, carrot cake, and banana bread. Yeast cakes are the oldest and are very similar to yeast bread. Such cakes are often very traditional in form and include such pastries as babka and stollen. Some varieties of cake are widely available in the form of cake mixes, wherein some of the ingredients (usually flour, sugar, flavoring, baking powder, and sometimes some form of fat) are premixed, and the cook needs add only a few extra ingredients, usually eggs, water, and sometimes vegetable oil or butter. While the diversity of represented styles is limited, cake mixes do provide an easy and readily available homemade option for cooks who are not accomplished bakers. Cake varieties Gooey butter cake German chocolate cake A strawberry cake prepared as a layer cake Chocolate Cake pops with sprinkles. A cake pop is a cake styled as a lollipop. Malay steamed sponge cake Strawberry mousse cake Carrot Cake Sponge Cake Special-purpose cakes Cake made for a baby shower with edible decorations, an example of edible art Cakes may be classified according to the occasion for which they are intended. For example, wedding cakes, birthday cakes, cakes for first communion, Christmas cakes, Halloween cakes, and Passover plava (a type of sponge cake sometimes made with matzo meal) are all identified primarily according to the celebration they are intended to accompany. The cutting of a wedding cake constitutes a social ceremony in some cultures. The Ancient Roman marriage ritual of confarreatio originated in the sharing of a cake. Particular types of cake may be associated with particular festivals, such as stollen or chocolate log (at Christmas), babka and simnel cake (at Easter), or mooncake. There has been a long tradition of decorating an iced cake at Christmas time; other cakes associated with Christmas include chocolate log and mince pies. A Lancashire Courting Cake is a fruit-filled cake baked by a fiancée for her betrothed. The cake has been described as "somewhere between a firm sponge – with a greater proportion of flour to fat and eggs than a Victoria sponge cake – and a shortbread base and was proof of the bride-to-be's baking skills". Traditionally it is a two-layer cake filled and topped with strawberries or raspberries and whipped cream.[15] A decorated birthday cake A Halloween cake shaped like a pumpkin Wedding cakes at a bridal show Shapes A chocolate sour cream bundt cake Cakes are frequently described according to their physical form. Cakes may be small and intended for individual consumption. Larger cakes may be made to be sliced and served as part of a meal or social function. Common shapes include: Bundt cakes Cake balls Conical, such as the Kransekake Cupcakes and madeleines, which are both sized for a single person Layer cakes, frequently baked in a springform pan and decorated Sheet cakes, simple, flat, rectangular cakes baked in sheet pans Swiss rolls Cakes by shape A plate of white chocolate cake balls The kransekage is an example of a conical cake Dobos torte is an older form of layer cake. A sheet cake Cake flour Main article: Flour Special cake flour with a high starch-to-gluten ratio is made from fine-textured, soft, low-protein wheat. It is strongly bleached and compared to all-purpose flour, cake flour tends to result in cakes with a lighter, less dense texture.[16] Therefore, it is frequently specified or preferred in cakes meant to be soft, light, and/or bright white, such as angel food cake. However, if cake flour is called for, a substitute can be made by replacing a small percentage of all-purpose flour with cornstarch or removing two tablespoons from each cup of all-purpose flour.[17][18][19] Some recipes explicitly specify or permit all-purpose flour, notably where a firmer or denser cake texture is desired. Cooking Play media Baking a basic yellow cake A cake can fail to bake properly, which is called "falling". In a cake that "falls", parts may sink or flatten, because it was baked at a temperature that is too low or too hot,[20][21] when it has been underbaked[21] and when placed in an oven that is too hot at the beginning of the baking process.[22] The use of excessive amounts of sugar, flour, fat or leavening can also cause a cake to fall.[22][23] A cake can also fall when subjected to cool air that enters an oven when the oven door is opened during the cooking process.[24] Cake decorating Main article: Cake decorating Cake decoration – buttercream swirls being piped onto the sides of this cake with a pastry bag A finished cake is often enhanced by covering it with icing, or frosting, and toppings such as sprinkles, which are also known as "jimmies" in certain parts of the United States and "hundreds and thousands" in the United Kingdom. The frosting is usually made from powdered (icing) sugar, sometimes a fat of some sort, milk or cream, and often flavorings such as a vanilla extract or cocoa powder. Some decorators use a rolled fondant icing. Commercial bakeries tend to use lard for the fat, and often whip the lard to introduce air bubbles. This makes the icing light and spreadable. Home bakers either use lard, butter, margarine, or some combination thereof. Sprinkles are small firm pieces of sugar and oils that are colored with food coloring. In the late 20th century, new cake decorating products became available to the public. These include several specialized sprinkles and even methods to print pictures and transfer the image onto a cake. Special tools are needed for more complex cake decorating, such as piping bags and various piping tips, syringes and embossing mats. To use a piping bag or syringe, a piping tip is attached to the bag or syringe using a coupler. The bag or syringe is partially filled with icing which is sometimes colored. Using different piping tips and various techniques, a cake decorator can make many different designs. Basic decorating tips include open star, closed star, basketweave, round, drop flower, leaf, multi, petal, and specialty tips. An embossing mat is used to create embossed effects. A cake turntable that cakes are spun upon may be used in cake decoration. Royal icing, marzipan (or a less sweet version, known as almond paste), fondant icing (also known as sugar paste), and buttercream are used as covering icings and to create decorations. Floral sugarcraft or wired sugar flowers are an important part of cake decoration. Cakes for special occasions, such as wedding cakes, are traditionally rich fruit cakes or occasionally Madeira cakes, that are covered with marzipan and iced using royal icing or sugar-paste. They are finished with piped borders (made with royal icing) and adorned with a piped message, wired sugar flowers, hand-formed fondant flowers, marzipan fruit, piped flowers, or crystallized fruits or flowers such as grapes or violets. Decorated cakes A large cake garnished with strawberries A slice of strawberry cake with garnishing of strawberry Chocolate layer cake with chocolate frosting and shaved chocolate topping A chocolate cake decorated with icing, strawberries, and silvery sugar beads or Dragées Birthday cake in shape of Lace monitor with egg in mouth Birthday cake with a variety of toppings. See also List of cakes List of baked goods List of desserts Pie Torte Turnover Bundt References ^ Cake finishes. YouTube. Retrieved 23 December 2011. ^ The history of cakes. Devlaming.co.za. Retrieved 23 December 2011. ^ "whatscookingamerica.net". ^ Castella, Krystina (2010). A World of Cake: 150 Recipes for Sweet Traditions From Cultures Around the World, pp. 3–4. ISBN 978-1-60342-576-6. ^ Jump up to: a b c Ayto, John (2002). An A–Z of food and drink. Oxford [Oxfordshire]: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-280352-2. ^ Ov. Tris. IV. X:12. ^ Castella, Krystina (2010). A World of Cake: 150 Recipes for Sweet Traditions From Cultures Around the World, pp. 6–7. ISBN 978-1-60342-576-6. ^ Park, Michael (2013). "A History of the Cake Mix, the Invention That Redefined 'Baking'". bonappetit.com. Bon Appétit. ^ Catalano, Christina (2002). "Shaping the American Woman: Feminism and Advertising in the 1950s". Constructing the Past. 3 (1): 45. Retrieved 25 May 2014. ^ "Something Eggstra". Snopes.com. Retrieved 25 May 2014. ^ Robbins, Mary Jane. "Creaming butter and sugar". King Arthur Flour. Retrieved 6 December 2015. ^ Cloake, Felicity (16 May 2013). "How to make the perfect Victoria sponge cake". Guardian. Retrieved 6 December 2015. [Victoria sponge] is a misnomer, because a true sponge, of the kind used in Swiss rolls, is made from a whisked mixture of eggs, sugar and flour. ^ Medrich, Alice (1997). Joy of Cooking. New York: Scribner. p. 949. ISBN 0-684-81870-1. ^ Berry, Mary. "Chocolate sponge cake". Food: Recipes. BBC. Retrieved 6 December 2015. ^ "The history of the Courting Cake, a Lancashire tradition". Lancashire Life. 1 June 2011. Retrieved 9 October 2015. ^ Types of Flour. Whatscookingamerica.net. Retrieved 23 December 2011. ^ Cake flour properties and substitutions. Gourmetsleuth.com. Retrieved 23 December 2011. ^ What is cake flour?. ninemsn.com.au (1 August 2007). Retrieved 23 December 2011. ^ Irma von Starkloff Rombauer; Marion Rombauer Becker (1975). Joy of cooking. Simon and Schuster. pp. 547–. ISBN 978-0-02-604570-4. ^ Science and Industry. Colliery engineer Company. 1899. p. 174. ^ Jump up to: a b Eicher, L.; Williams, K. (2009). The Amish Cook's Baking Book. Andrews McMeel Publishing. p. 118. ISBN 978-0-7407-8547-4. ^ Jump up to: a b Gelb, A.; Levine, K. (2005). A Survival Guide for Culinary Professionals. Thomson Delmar Learning. p. 243. ISBN 978-1-4018-4092-1. ^ Bureau of Medicine And Surgery, United States. Navy Dept (1944). "Fallen+cake" The Hospital Corps Quarterly: Supplement to the United States Naval Medical Bulletin. p. 128. ^ Eckhardt, L.W.; Baigrie, J. (2005). Cakes from Scratch in Half the Time. Chronicle Books. p. 23. ISBN 978-0-8118-4240-2. External links Wikibooks Cookbook has a recipe/module on Cake Listen to this article (info/dl) Menu 0:00 Note: this file is approximately 12 Megabytes. This audio file was created from a revision of the article "Cake" dated 2019-10-07, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help) More spoken articles The dictionary definition of cake at Wiktionary Media related to Cake at Wikimedia Commons Wikimedia Commons has media related to Cakes. show v t e Cakes List of cakes Butter cakes Babka Banana bread Devil's food cake Gooey butter cake Pound cake Cheesecakes Fiadone Ostkaka Ube cheesecake Chocolate cakes Batik cake Black Forest gateau Blackout cake Chantilly cake Chocolate brownie Flourless chocolate cake Fudge cake Garash cake German chocolate cake Hedgehog slice Joffre cake Kladdkaka Molten chocolate cake Sachertorte Torta caprese Fruitcakes Apple cake Avocado cake Banana cake Bánh chuối Black bun Bolo-rei Cherry cake Clementine cake Crema de fruta Dundee cake Fig cake Genoa cake Jewish apple cake Mango cake Mango float Panforte Plum cake Raisin cake Layer cakes Angel cake Buckwheat gateau Dobos torte Esterházy torte Flan cake Hot milk cake Maria Luisa cake Mille-feuille Cremeschnitte Napoleonka Šampita Tompouce Princess cake Prinzregententorte Rainbow cake Sarawak cake Smith Island cake Spekkoek Torte Vínarterta Spit cakes Baumkuchen Kürtőskalács (Chimney cake) Šakotis Spettekaka Trdelník Sponge cakes Bahulu Bánh bò Battenberg cake Boston cream pie Bundt cake Castella Charlotte Coffee and walnut cake Donauwelle Frankfurter Kranz French Fancy Frog cake Génoise Gugelhupf Lady Baltimore cake Ladyfinger Lamington Madeira cake Madeleine Mantecadas Marble cake Misérable cake Opera cake Pandan cake Paper wrapped cake Pionono Red velvet cake Rum cake Shortcake Spice cake Swiss roll Tres leches cake Upside-down cake Foam cakes and meringue Angel food cake Brazo de Mercedes Chiffon cake Dacquoise Kiev cake Mamón Mango cake Pavlova Sans rival Spanische Windtorte Ube cake Yema cake Zuger Kirschtorte Yeast cakes Banbury cake Breudher Cacavellu Campanile Canestru Chorley cake Cozonac Date and walnut loaf Easter bread Flies' graveyard Inuliata Pandoro Rum baba Streuselkuchen Sweetheart cake Welsh cake Special occasions Birthday cake Buccellato Bûche de Noël Christmas cake Doberge cake Groom's cake Halloween cake King cake Rosca de reyes Kransekake Lekach Love cake Marry girl cake Mooncake Pan de Pascua Pască Pop out cake Simnel cake Soul cake Stack cake Stollen Strenna Wedding cake Other Basbousa Beer cake Better than sex cake Biscuit Bizcocho Bulla cake Cake balls Cake pop Carrot cake Coconut cake Coffee cake Croquembouche Cupcake Cupcone Gingerbread house man Heavy cake Ice cream cake Kue Kuih Lolly cake Muffin Ontbijtkoek Pain d'épices Pancake Parkin Petit four Punschkrapfen Rice cake Ruske kape Teacake Tiramisu Category Commons WikiProject Authority control GND: 4165856-5 LCCN: sh85018727 NARA: 10647897 NDL: 01036849 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cake&oldid=954001205" Categories: Cakes World cuisine European cuisine Desserts Types of food Hidden categories: Articles with short description Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalism Use dmy dates from July 2014 Articles needing additional references from August 2015 All articles needing additional references Spoken articles Articles with hAudio microformats Commons category link is on Wikidata Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NARA identifiers Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers Articles containing video clips Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Wikipedia store Contribute Help Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Alemannisch Ænglisc العربية Arpetan Asturianu Atikamekw Azərbaycanca Banjar Bân-lâm-gú Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ Català Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Gaeilge Galego 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Ido Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska עברית Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ Kiswahili Kreyòl ayisyen Kurdî Latina Latviešu മലയാളം मराठी مصرى Bahasa Melayu Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Нохчийн Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Nouormand ਪੰਜਾਬੀ Picard Plattdüütsch Polski Português Ripoarisch Română Runa Simi Русский Scots Shqip Sicilianu Simple English Српски / srpski Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் ไทย Tsetsêhestâhese Türkmençe Українська اردو Vepsän kel’ Tiếng Việt Walon 吴语 ייִדיש 粵語 中文72 more Edit links This page was last edited on 30 April 2020, at 04:37 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Enable previews A cake and pie server, also called a cake shovel, pie knife, crépe spade, pie-getter, pie lifter, pie spatula, or cake slice, is a serving utensil used in the cutting and serving of pies and cakes. Some cake and pie servers have serrated edges. Another use can be to serve pizza.