Abiy Ahmed: No force can stop Ethiopia from building dam - BBC News , Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help Sign inNotifications Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds More Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC , Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help Sign inNotifications Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds More Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC News BBC News Navigation Home Video World selected UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say More sections World selected Africa selected Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada Abiy Ahmed: No force can stop Ethiopia from building dam 22 October 2019 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Copy this link Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Abiy Ahmed won the Nobel Peace Prize for ending hostilities with Eritrea Ethiopian Prime Minister and Nobel Peace Prize winner Abiy Ahmed says "no force can stop Ethiopia" from building a dam on the River Nile despite objections from Egypt. The dam, under construction on the Blue Nile tributary in northern Ethiopia, will create Africa's largest hydroelectric power station. Some 85% of the Nile emerges from the Ethiopian highlands. Egypt fears the project will allow Ethiopia to control the river's flow. The project has been the source of political tension between the two countries for years. Africa Live: More on this and other African stories The 'water war' brewing over the new River Nile dam Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi is expected to discuss the dispute with Mr Abiy on the sidelines of the Russia-Africa summit due to start in Russia on Wednesday, Reuters news agency reports. Mr Sisi would propose the appointment of a mediator to resolve the long-running dispute, it quotes an unnamed official as saying. However, Mr Abiy said he wanted to "underline" the fact that "no force can stop" the completion of the dam. "The people of Ethiopia have no desire to harm the people of Egypt, they only need to get benefit [from the dam]," he told parliamentarians in the capital Addis Ababa. Ethiopia hopes that the dam, which is nearly two-thirds complete, will start generating power by 2021 at the latest to meet its energy needs. Egypt draws most of its fresh water from the Nile and the UN predicts that the country, home to almost 100 million people, will start suffering water shortages by 2025. Mr Abiy was awarded the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize earlier this month for resolving Ethiopia's border conflict with Eritrea, and promoting peace and reconciliation in his own country and in the region. Explore the Nile with 360 video Media playback is unsupported on your device Join Alastair Leithead and his team, travelling in 2018 from the Blue Nile's source to the sea - through Ethiopia and Sudan into Egypt. This 360° video is a version of the first VR documentary series from BBC News. To view the full films, click here. Related Topics Ethiopia Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn More on this story The 'water war' brewing over the new River Nile dam 24 February 2018 Around the BBC Africa Today podcasts Africa Motorbike taxi rider sets himself on fire 'over bribe' 3 July 2020 From the section Africa Full article Motorbike taxi rider sets himself on fire 'over bribe' Ghana minister resigns for breaking quarantine rules 3 July 2020 Full article Ghana minister resigns for breaking quarantine rules 'I wanted to take my culture and make it represent me now' 3 July 2020 Full article 'I wanted to take my culture and make it represent me now' From Around the Web Most Computer Owners Don't Know This Trick (Do It Today) Security Savers Online Sale is on 30%-70% off H&M California Real Estate Prices Might Surprise You California Real Estate Digital Transformation Courses in Cairo Might Surprise You Digital Transformation Courses | Search Ads [Pics] Man Orders Pizza Every Day for 10 Years Until Employees Realize Something Studentsea Woman Finds Date Passed Out, Then Realizes They Accidentally Swapped Drinks [Pics] Studentsea Promoted content by Outbrain Top Stories England lockdown easing 'biggest step yet' - PM Boris Johnson says the public must not let businesses down when they reopen on Saturday. 3 July 2020 Bolsonaro waters down law requiring face masks 3 July 2020 Redskins agree review of controversial name 3 July 2020 Features Why this 4 July will be unlike any other Outrage as judge calls alleged rape victim 'unbecoming' Video Protest, rally or eating out - Where is riskier? Advertisement Finding the 'invisible' millions who are not on maps Deciding who lives and dies in a Cape Town township Sky is the limit for Pakistan's metal artist TikTok's Boogaloo extremism problem Weekly quiz: Which city had a coronavirus 'farewell' bash? Africa's top shots: Starting blocks and independence heroes Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Full article Lyrics quiz Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Full article Feeling hot Most Read Most Read 1 White couple charged for threatening black family 2 Coronavirus: England lockdown easing 'biggest step yet', says PM 3 Coronavirus: England’s quarantine-free list of countries published 4 Supermarkets snub coconut goods picked by monkeys 5 Sheffield Council apologises for coronavirus pub tweet 6 Washington Redskins agree review of controversial team name 7 Leicester lockdown: New laws come into force 8 Coronavirus: What are the UK's travel rules and which countries can you visit? 9 Coronavirus: What are the new rules when pubs reopen? 10 Reckful: Twitch and gamers pay tribute after star's death Info/CaptionWhy you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My InfoCopyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.