The greedy algorithm and implementation - Stack Overflow , Stack Overflow Products Customers Use cases Stack Overflow Public questions and answers Teams Private questions and answers for your team Enterprise Private self-hosted questions and answers for your enterprise Jobs Programming and related technical career opportunities Talent Hire technical talent Advertising Reach developers worldwide Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog , Stack Overflow Products Customers Use cases Stack Overflow Public questions and answers Teams Private questions and answers for your team Enterprise Private self-hosted questions and answers for your enterprise Jobs Programming and related technical career opportunities Talent Hire technical talent Advertising Reach developers worldwide Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Home Public Stack Overflow Tags Users Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams What’s this? Free 30 Day Trial Teams Q&A for Work Stack Overflow for Teams is a private, secure spot for you and your coworkers to find and share information. Learn more The greedy algorithm and implementation Ask Question Asked 4 years, 11 months ago Active 2 years, 6 months ago Viewed 1k times This question shows research effort; it is useful and clear 3 This question does not show any research effort; it is unclear or not useful 2 Bookmark this question. Show activity on this post. Hello I've just started learning greedy algorithm and I've first looked at the classic coin changing problem. I could understand the greediness (i.e., choosing locally optimal solution towards a global optimum.) in the algorithm as I am choosing the highest value of coin such that the sum+{value of chosen coin}<=total value . Then I started to solve some greedy algorithm problem in some sites. I could solve most of the problems but couldn't figure out exactly where the greediness is applied in the problem. I coded the only solution i could think of, for the problems and got it accepted. The editorials also show the same way of solving problem but i could not understand the application of greedy paradigm in the algorithm. Are greedy algorithms the only way of solving a particular range of problems? Or they are one way of solving problems which could be more efficient? Could you give me pseudo codes of a same problem with and without the application of greedy paradigm? algorithm greedy share Share a link to this question Copy linkCC BY-SA 3.0 | improve this question | follow Follow this question to receive notifications | edited Jul 29 '15 at 10:05 Felix Av 1,17411 gold badge1010 silver badges2121 bronze badges asked Jul 29 '15 at 8:29 MailMail 13311 gold badge11 silver badge77 bronze badges This might help you a bit. – zegkljan Jul 29 '15 at 10:08 add a comment | 4 Answers 4 Active Oldest Votes This answer is useful 0 This answer is not useful Say thanks for this answer. 0 0 others reacted with thanks. Show activity on this post. I think that there is always another way to solve a problem, but sometimes, as you've stated, it probably will be less efficient. For example, you can always check all the options (coins permutations), store the results and choose the best, but of course the efficiency is terrible. Hope it helps. share Share a link to this answer Copy linkCC BY-SA 3.0 | improve this answer | follow Follow this answer to receive notifications | answered Jul 29 '15 at 8:51 Felix AvFelix Av 1,17411 gold badge1010 silver badges2121 bronze badges add a comment | This answer is useful 0 This answer is not useful Say thanks for this answer. 0 0 others reacted with thanks. Show activity on this post. Greedy algorithms are just a class of algorithms that iteratively construct/improve a solution. Imagine the most famous problem - TSP. You can formulate it as Integer Linear Programming problem and give it to an ILP solver and it will give you globally optimal solution (if it has enought time). But you could do it in a greedy way. You can construct some solution (e.g. randomly) and then look for changes (e.g. switch an order of two cities) that improve your solution and you keep doing these changes until there is no such change possible. So the bottom line is: greedy algorithms are only a method of solving hard problems efficiently (in time, but not necessary in the quality of solution), but there are other classes of algorithms for solving such problems. share Share a link to this answer Copy linkCC BY-SA 3.0 | improve this answer | follow Follow this answer to receive notifications | answered Jul 29 '15 at 10:13 zegkljanzegkljan 5,99355 gold badges2424 silver badges4141 bronze badges add a comment | This answer is useful 0 This answer is not useful Say thanks for this answer. 0 0 others reacted with thanks. Show activity on this post. For coins, greedy algorithm is also the optimal one, therefore the "greediness" is not as visible as with some other problems. In some cases you prefer solution, which is not the best one, but you can compute it much faster (computing the real best solution can takes years for example). Then you choose heuristic, that should give you the best results - based on average input data, its structure and what you want to want to accomplish. On wikipedia, there is good solution on finding the biggest sum of numbers in tree Imagine that you have for example 2^1000 nodes in this tree. To find optimal solution, you have to visit each node once. Personal computer today is not able to do this in your lifetime, therefore you want some heuristic. Greedy alghoritm however find solution in just 1000 steps (which does not take more than one milisecond) share Share a link to this answer Copy linkCC BY-SA 3.0 | improve this answer | follow Follow this answer to receive notifications | answered Jul 29 '15 at 10:21 libiklibik 17.3k99 gold badges3333 silver badges6767 bronze badges add a comment | This answer is useful 0 This answer is not useful Say thanks for this answer. 0 0 others reacted with thanks. Show activity on this post. There are lots of real life examples of greedy algorithms. One of the obvious is the coin changing problem, to make change in a certain currency, we repeatedly dispense the largest denomination, thus , to give out seventeen dollars and sixty one cents in change, we give out a ten-dollar bill, a five-dollar bill, two one-dollar bills, two quarters , one dime, and one penny. By doing this, we are guaranteed to minimize the number of bills and coins. This algorithm does not work in all monetary systems...more here share Share a link to this answer Copy linkCC BY-SA 3.0 | improve this answer | follow Follow this answer to receive notifications | answered Jan 5 '18 at 0:25 Muyide IbukunMuyide Ibukun 7921010 silver badges1818 bronze badges add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged algorithm greedy or ask your own question. The Overflow Blog Nobody has to lose in work/life balance How Stack Overflow hires engineers Featured on Meta New post lock available on meta sites: Policy Lock Feedback post: New moderator reinstatement and appeal process revisions Data validation & background for the Thank You Reaction feature test 2020 Moderator Election Q&A - Question Collection Linked 4 How is Greedy Technique different from Exhaustive Search? 1 How can I distribute databases across servers as evenly as possible while minimizing the movements required? Related 1456What is the best algorithm for overriding GetHashCode? 1153Easy interview question got harder: given numbers 1..100, find the missing number(s) given exactly k are missing 6How to tell if greedy algorithm suffices for finding minimum coin change? 9When locally optimal solutions equal global optimal? Thinking about greedy algorithm 1106Ukkonen's suffix tree algorithm in plain English 1665Image Processing: Algorithm Improvement for 'Coca-Cola Can' Recognition 5Greedy algorithm and coin algorithm? 60Why does the greedy coin change algorithm not work for some coin sets? 1921What is the optimal algorithm for the game 2048? 1Make Greedy Algorithm Fail on Subset of Euro Coins Hot Network Questions A two-thresholds poison: how does it work? I can't find a file I moved to USB drive Why should you add dry mix to water and not the other way round What is the probability of different public key hash that produce the same checksum value Looking for a ghost short stories book Why casting grand spell usually accompanied with tapping the ground with quarterstaff? Taping over a speed camera - UK Does a Backflip iMac occasionally gets very sluggish. Memory Pressure is high and its hard to use computer. Why is this? How can I use my dSLR or mirrorless camera as a webcam? How to get better at proofs Tarokka effect for a given die roll and critical success/miss. Is this balanced? Two brothers war against one another: Magic vs. Technology Must I share made modifications of a software which has a AGPL-3.0 license and is founded on github? Is it legal to steal the American flag from the moon? Intuitive explanation of "Statistical Inference" Can I use 我的上一辈子 in this context? At the Big Bang, when everything was close together, why did it not "collide", violating Planck length or Pauli Exclusion Principle? When I am present, most people are quite nervous Did the Black Lives Matter protests fail to cause a spike in coronavirus cases? Can a chord be consonant, but unstable? Problem plotting a bifurcation diagram of logistic map Pythagorean quilts Why did really old paintings use such bizarre, unnatural perspective/proportions? Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Disable Responsiveness Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin Software Quality Assurance & Testing Sound Design Windows Phone more (28) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Video Production Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law Physical Fitness Gardening & Landscaping Parenting more (10) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Chinese Language French Language German Language Biblical Hermeneutics History Spanish Language Islam Русский язык Russian Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair Board & Card Games Bricks Homebrewing Martial Arts The Great Outdoors Poker Chess Sports more (16) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy Linguistics Psychology & Neuroscience Computational Science more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2020 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2020.7.3.37177 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled