BBC World Service - The Real Story, Who controls the River Nile? , Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help Menu Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC , Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help Menu Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC Schedule BBC World Service The Real Story More The Real Story Home Episodes Highlights Podcast Newshour Join us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Main content Listen now Who controls the River Nile? The Real Story Ethiopia and Egypt are yet to forge a deal as a mega dam on the Nile kicks into action Show more This week, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo visited Ethiopia, just months before the planned partial opening of a controversial new dam project that Egypt says will harm tens-of-millions living along the River Nile. Construction of the Grand Renaissance Dam in Ethiopia began in 2011 and is expected to start generating electricity within months. But Ethiopia has yet to agree with nearby Egypt how quickly the dam’s reservoir should be filled (the faster the process happens, the less water will flow downstream to Egypt). Attempts by the United States to negotiate a deal between its competing allies in North-Eastern Africa have so far failed, leading to concerns the row could lead to conflict. Ritula Shah and her panel of expert guests assess the economic costs and benefits of the dam to those up and downstream. And as climate change continues to threaten water security in the region, will the dam make the situation better or worse? In the end, who controls the Nile? Show less Download Choose your file Higher quality (128kbps) Lower quality (64kbps) Available now 53 minutes Last on Fri 21 Feb 2020 20:06 Local time BBC World Service except Americas and the Caribbean More episodes Previous What's next for Iran? Next Was it a mistake to overthrow Gaddafi? See all episodes from The Real Story Contributors Professor Khaled Abu Zeid - Director of technical programs at the Arab Water Council in Cairo Dr Jeannie Sowers - Associate Professor at the University of New Hampshire - and author of the book: ‘Environmental Politics in Egypt: Experts, Activists, and the State' Professor Mammo Muchie - Research professor with the department of science and technology at the national research foundation of South Africa and at the Tshwane University of technology in Pretoria. Harry Verhoeven - Associate member of the Department of Politics & International Relations, University of Oxford 　 Image A general view of the Blue Nile river as it passes through the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD), near Guba in Ethiopia. Credit: Eduardo Soteras/AFP/Getty Images. Broadcasts Fri 21 Feb 2020 01:06 Local time BBC World Service Fri 21 Feb 2020 16:06 Local time BBC World Service Fri 21 Feb 2020 19:06 Local time BBC World Service Americas and the Caribbean Fri 21 Feb 2020 20:06 Local time BBC World Service except Americas and the Caribbean Show more / Show less The Real Story Podcast Subscribe via your favourite podcast app... ... Or download episodes here Podcast The Real Story Global experts and decision makers discuss, debate and analyse a key news story. Related Content Similar programmes By genre: Factual By format: Discussion & Talk Listen live 21:06 GMT Tech Tent Online schedule Downloads Help & FAQs Contact us News in 39 languages Explore the BBC News Sport Weather Radio Arts Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My InfoCopyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.