World cup - Wikipedia ,  , World cup From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search International sporting competition featuring competitors representing individual nations For the association football competition simply known as "the World Cup", see FIFA World Cup. For a more exhaustive list, see World Cup (disambiguation). For World championships, see List of world sports championships and List of world championships in mind sports. The Alpine Skiing World Cup consists of a series of competitions where results are counted together A world cup is a global sporting competition in which the participant entities – usually international teams or individuals representing their countries – compete for the title of world champion. A world cup is generally considered the premier competition in its sport, with the victor attaining the highest honour in that sport and able to lay claim to the title of their sport's best. However, in some sports the Olympic title carries at least as much prestige. There are a number of notable popular sports competitions labeled "world cups", such as the ICC Cricket World Cup, but perhaps the best known is the FIFA World Cup (an association football tournament, first held in 1930), which is widely known simply as "the World Cup".[1] Contents 1 Differences between world cup and world championships 2 Season-long format 3 See also 4 References Differences between world cup and world championships Some sports governing bodies prefer the title "world championship" or a related term; some even organize both a world cup and a world championship with different rules. Usually, such competitions take one of two forms, a short periodic competition or a year-long series of meetings, but more frequently many sports have both World Cup (usually competed with more races of a season), and world championship (usually a single event). Some examples in the following table. Sport World Cup World Championships Alpine skiing FIS Alpine Ski World Cup FIS Alpine World Ski Championships Archery Archery World Cup World Archery Championships Artistic gymnastics Artistic Gymnastics World Cup World Artistic Gymnastics Championships Athletics Athletics World Cup World Athletics Championships Cross-country skiing FIS Cross-Country World Cup FIS Nordic World Ski Championships Cycling UCI Road World Cup UCI World Championships Diving FINA Diving World Cup FINA World Aquatics Championships Fencing Fencing World Cup Fencing World Championships Rhythmic gymnastics Rhythmic Gymnastics World Cup World Rhythmic Gymnastics Championships A periodic world cup or world championship usually takes the form of a knockout tournament (possibly with an initial group stage). This is held over a number of days or weeks, with the entrants eventually being whittled down to two, and the tournament culminating in a world cup final. The winner(s) take the title of World Champion(s) and hold it until the next time the event is held (usually one, two, or four years later). This format is most common in team sports, as with the FIFA World Cup or the ICC Cricket World Cup. Season-long format A contrasting concept, popular in individual sports, is a year-long competition with several meetings over its course. In this format, victory at an individual meeting earns a number of points, and, usually, a number of positions below also score points inversely related to their position. Contestants accumulate a number of points over the course of the year (often "season") and their cumulative total after all meetings have been concluded determines the World Champion or, simply, World Cup winner. The winner is then considered the champion until the next World Cup. See also List of world sports championships, including those styled as "World Cups" World Cup (disambiguation) World Series (disambiguation) References ^ "Homework Help and Textbook Solutions | bartleby". www.bartleby.com. hide v t e World cups List of world cups Team Association football men men's club women women's club ConIFA Athletics Continental Australian rules football Badminton men women mixed Baseball men women Basketball men women Beach soccer Boxing Bull riding Cricket Test men ODI men Twenty20 women ODI women Twenty20 indoor Darts PDC WDF Fencing Field hockey men women Futsal FIFA men AMF men AMF women Golf men women Ice hockey Lacrosse women Pesäpallo Pitch and putt Pool (nine-ball) Quidditch Roll ball Motorsport auto racing motocross speedway trial Roller derby men women Rowing Rugby league men women nines Rugby union men women sevens Sepaktakraw Snooker Softball Taekwondo Tennis men women mixed Touch football Volleyball men women Water polo men women Wrestling teams clubs Individual Archery Brazilian jiu-jitsu Canoe slalom Wildwater canoeing Chess Cyclo-cross Diving Equestrian dressage Fencing Gymnastics artistic rhythmic Mountain bike racing Orienteering Paralympic summer winter Road bicycle racing men women Sailing Show jumping Sport shooting Swimming Ten-pin bowling Track cycling Triathlon Winter sports Biathlon Curling Skiing Alpine Cross-country Freestyle ski cross Nordic combined Ski jumping ski flying Snowboarding Ski mountaineering Ski orienteering Sledding Bobsleigh Luge Skeleton Speed skating Short track See also: {{Main world championships}} Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=World_cup&oldid=962457848" Categories: Sports terminology World championships Hidden categories: Articles with short description Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Wikipedia store Contribute Help Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages বাংলা Čeština Deutsch Svenska తెలుగు Edit links This page was last edited on 14 June 2020, at 05:23 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Enable previews