River Nile dam dispute - BBC News , Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help Sign inNotifications Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds More Search Search the BBCSearch the BBCBBC News News NavigationSections Home Coronavirus Video World UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check More More sectionsNile: Ethiopians and Egyptians trade TikTok threatsEthiopia threatens withdrawal from Nile Dam talksNile nations try to end deadlock over damEthiopia PM defends dam: 'We are tired of begging'Talks on Nile giant dam dispute to resumeEthiopians asked to fundraise for $£5bn dam projectEthiopia angry at US position on Nile DamUS urges Ethiopia to sign Nile dam dealEthiopia to boycott talks on Nile dam row'No final agreement' in River Nile dam row , Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help Sign inNotifications Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds More Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC BBC News News NavigationSections Home Coronavirus Video World UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check More More sections River Nile dam dispute Posted at 1:45 1 Jul Nile: Ethiopians and Egyptians trade TikTok threats BBC Monitoring The world through its media Ethiopians and Egyptians have battled it out on the social media platform TikTok, with each side trying to defend its right to access the Nile River’s waters. One of the most widely-circulated videos shows a young Ethiopian woman using a jar of water representing her country and two empty cups representing Sudan and Egypt. She fills the cup of Sudan first and then Egypt’s, before she reverses her decision and empties Egypt’s cup, saying in Arabic: “I’ll not give you water, that’s my will”. Her video is first here in this compilation of three, followed by another TikTok user who pours water into vessels for Ethiopia, Sudan and Egypt and then takes all the water from Egypt and gives it to Ethiopia. Report The online row follows increased tensions in recent weeks between Egypt and Ethiopia over the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam. Egypt fears that its share of water from River Nile will be significantly reduced during the filling of the dam, while Ethiopia insists on proceeding with the project. UN Security Council member states have urged the continuation of tripartite talks between Egypt, Sudan and Ethiopia over the filling of the dam. Posted at 23:10 16 Jun Ethiopia threatens withdrawal from Nile Dam talks Kalkidan Yibeltal BBC News, Addis Ababa Reuters The dam will be Africa's biggest hydroelectric power plant Ethiopia’s foreign affairs minister has warned that his country might not return to the negotiation table if Egypt walks out of the current round of talks. The two countries, together with Sudan, resumed talks last week to solve the long-standing impasse on the Grand Renaissance Dam, which Ethiopia is building. Egypt fears the project will allow Ethiopia to control the flow of Africa's longest river. Speaking to journalists in Addis Ababa on Tuesday, Ethiopia's Foreign Affairs Minister Gedu Andargachew accused Cairo of obstinacy. Read: The trouble over a giant Nile dam Posted at 2:38 10 Jun Nile nations try to end deadlock over dam Kalkidan Yibeltal BBC News, Addis Ababa Getty Images Construction began on the dam in 2011 Ethiopia, Sudan and Egypt are trying to agree on what the role of observers should be as they resume talks to resolve the dispute over the Grand Renaissance Dam. The talks, mediated by the US and World Bank, stalled after the three countries could not agree on a timeline for filling the mega dam. Ethiopia has announced its intention to start filling the dam’s reservoir in July. When complete, the dam will be Africa's biggest hydroelectric power plant. Its construction began in 2011 on the Blue Nile tributary in the northern Ethiopia highlands. According to a statement from Ethiopia's water ministry, the new round of talks are being attended by representatives from South Africa, the European Union and the United States as observers. The talks, which began on Tuesday, are being held virtually because of the coronavirus pandemic. The dam is currently under construction in western Ethiopia and is nearly 75% complete according to officials. Read: Egypt-Ethiopia row: The trouble over a giant Nile dam Posted at 1:36 9 Jun Ethiopia PM defends dam: 'We are tired of begging' AFP Construction on the River Nile dam began in 2011 Ethiopia will push ahead with filling the Grand Renaissance Dam because the country needs to develop and provide electricity for its people, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has said. He told parliament that the country had already lost money because of delays. Construction began in 2011, and when it is full it will be Africa's biggest hydroelectric power plant. "We are tired of begging and the desire to develop does not mean we have intentions to harm other countries," the Ethiopian News Agency quoted him as saying. The dam was not intended to create any diplomatic rift, he said. The speed with which Ethiopia fills up the dam's reservoir will affect the flow downstream for Sudan and Egypt. Egypt does not want Ethiopia to fill the dam until an agreement is signed. The three nations are to resume talks on Tuesday. Egypt, which relies on the Nile for 90% of its fresh water, views the project as an existential threat. But Mr Abiy said some 50 million Ethiopians had no clean drinking water or electricity. "Completing the project and utilising it is no different than fulfilling the basic rights like that of Egypt where 98% of people have electricity." In March, Ethiopia pulled out of US-mediated talks, accusing the US of overstepping the role of neutral observer. Read: The trouble over a giant Nile dam Correction 9 June 2020: This post has been amended to remove an erroneous reference to Abiy Ahmed begging Egypt and Sudan. Posted at 23:11 21 May Talks on Nile giant dam dispute to resume BBC World Service Getty Images Talks have made no progress in more than four years Ethiopia, Sudan and Egypt are to resume talks over Ethiopia's controversial $4bn (£3.2bn) dam on the Nile. Ethiopia's Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed tweeted that water ministers from the three countries would attempt to reach what he called a win-win solution. View more on twitter No date has been set for resumption of talks. The dam is close to Ethiopia's border with Sudan. Egypt, which relies on the Nile for 90% of its fresh water, views its as an existential threat. In March, Ethiopia pulled out of US-mediated talks, accusing the US of overstepping the role of neutral observer by saying that the dam should not be completed without an agreement. Construction of the dam began in 2011. Read: The trouble over a giant Nile dam Posted at 5:37 6 Mar Ethiopians asked to fundraise for $£5bn dam project Kalkidan Yibeltal BBC News, Addis Ababa Getty Images Ethiopia has launched a campaign to raise funds for the construction of a giant dam on the River Nile - the source of significant regional tension. People have been asked to use their mobile phones to send money for the $5bn (£3bn) project, but the has not said how much it hopes to raise. The government recently refused to sign a US-mediated deal with Egypt and Sudan over the dam. The authorities seem to be trying to tap into public anger over what is seen as US pressure on Ethiopia to sign an unfavourable deal. Egypt and Sudan are worried the dam will deprive them of water. When finished the dam is estimated to produce 6,000 MW of electricity. It is around 68% complete and Ethiopian authorities plan to start filling it in a few months. Read more: The trouble over a giant Nile dam Posted at 10:19 3 Mar Ethiopia angry at US position on Nile Dam The US is running talks between Ethiopia and Egypt over the controversial mega dam project.Read more Posted at 5:52 29 Feb US urges Ethiopia to sign Nile dam deal Mary Harper Africa editor, BBC World Service Reuters Construction began in 2011 on the Blue Nile tributary in the northern Ethiopia highlands, from where 85% of the Nile's waters flow The United States says Ethiopia must, in the shortest possible time, sign a deal with Egypt and Sudan about a giant dam it is building on the River Nile. Steven Mnuchin, the US treasury secretary, said the final testing and filling of the dam should not take place without an agreement. Ethiopians have reacted angrily on social media, calling on Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed to resist US pressure. Earlier this week Ethiopia failed to attend what was meant to be the final signing of an accord. Egypt and Sudan fear the $4bn (£3bn) dam will deprive their populations of water. The Grand Renaissance Dam is at the heart of Ethiopia's manufacturing and industrial dreams. When completed it is expected to be able to generate a massive 6,000 megawatts of electricity. Read: What's behind the Nile dam row Posted at 0:03 26 Feb Ethiopia to boycott talks on Nile dam row Ethiopia's Water Minister Seleshi Bekele has said the country will not participate in fresh talks on the future of a giant hydropower project on the Nile River, the BBC’s Kalikdan Yibeltal reports from Addis Ababa. The talks were to be hosted by the United States on Thursday and Friday in Washington. The Grand Renaissance Dam, which Ethiopia is building on the Blue Nile tributary, will be Africa's biggest hydroelectric power plant when completed. It has caused a row between Egypt and Ethiopia, with Sudan caught in between, which the US has been helping to mediate. The three countries reached an initial deal last month on the filling and operation of the dam. State-linked Fana television has tweeted about the new development: View more on twitter Posted at 21:56 13 Feb 'No final agreement' in River Nile dam row Kalkidan Yibeltal BBC News, Addis Ababa Reuters The mega dam in being built on the Blue Nile Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan have failed to reach a final agreement on the filling up and operation of what will be Africa's biggest hydro-electric dam that is being built on River Nile. Ethiopian Ambassador to US Fitsum Arega has tweeted that the latest round of talks held in Washington on Thursday by water ministers from the three countries ended without a deal. The ambassador did not specify why no agreement was reached. The three nations had last month agreed on an initial deal, following talks mediated by the US and World Bank, that the Grand Renaissance Dam should be filled in stages during the rainy season. But more negotiation was needed before the final agreement could be finalised this month. Ethiopia, which is building the dam, wants to start generating electricity as soon as possible. But Egypt is concerned about its water supplies if the dam is filled too fast. Show more updates Back to top News NavigationSections BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My InfoCopyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.