Stack Overflow - Where Developers Learn, Share, & Build Careers , Stack Overflow Products Customers Use cases Stack Overflow Public questions and answers Teams Private questions and answers for your team Enterprise Private self-hosted questions and answers for your enterprise Jobs Programming and related technical career opportunities Talent Hire technical talent Advertising Reach developers worldwide Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog , Stack Overflow Products Customers Use cases Stack Overflow Public questions and answers Teams Private questions and answers for your team Enterprise Private self-hosted questions and answers for your enterprise Jobs Programming and related technical career opportunities Talent Hire technical talent Advertising Reach developers worldwide Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Home Public Stack Overflow Tags Users Jobs Teams What’s this? Free 30 Day Trial Teams Q&A for Work Stack Overflow for Teams is a private, secure spot for you and your coworkers to find and share information. Learn more We <3 people who code We build products that empower developers and connect them to solutions that enable productivity, growth, and discovery. For developers For businesses For developers, by developers Stack Overflow is an open community for anyone that codes. We help you get answers to your toughest coding questions, share knowledge with your coworkers in private, and find your next dream job. Public Q&A Get answers to more than 16.5 million questions and give back by sharing your knowledge with others. Sign up for an account. Browse questions Private Q&A Level up with Stack Overflow while you work. Share knowledge privately with your coworkers using our flagship Q&A engine. Try for free Browse jobs Find the right job through high quality listings and search for roles based on title, technology stack, salary, location, and more. Find a job For businesses, by developers Our mission is to help developers write the script of the future. This means helping you find and hire skilled developers for your business and providing them the tools they need to share knowledge and work effectively. Quickly find and share internal knowledge with Private Q&A Find the perfect candidate for your growing technical team with Talent solutions Accelerate the discovery of your products or services through our Advertising platform Unlock siloed knowledge with Stack Overflow for Teams Wikis, chat messages, or formal documentation for knowledge management aren’t effective. Our question and answer format is a proven approach for accessing the right information in less time. Learn more Basic Private knowledge base for teams $5 per teammate / month billed annually Free 30 day trial Your own private space hosted on stackoverflow.com Fully searchable archive Get started for free Business Private knowledge base with SSO and premium features $12 per teammate / month billed annually All the features of Basic Single sign-on (SSO) with SAML Reporting and analytics Priority customer support 99.5% uptime Request a demo Enterprise Standalone knowledge base with enhanced security and flexible hosting Custom pricing Host on your cloud or servers – or our private managed cloud Single sign-on with AD or SAML Robust read and write API Your own customer success and community building representative 99.5% uptime SLA and priority support Request a demo Leader Spring 2020 Users Love Us Most Innovative Companies 2019 Hire your technical talent We help expand your technical hiring strategy to promote your employer brand and highlight relevant open roles to our community of 50 million monthly visitors. Stack Overflow Talent Reach developers worldwide Use the world’s largest resource for people who code to help you increase awareness and showcase your product or service across Stack Overflow’s network of Q&A sites. Stack Overflow Advertising Questions are everywhere, answers are on Stack Overflow Ask a question Vote on everything Answer questions Tag your question Accept an answer Get recognized Ask a question publicly on 170+ Stack Exchange sites or privately using Stack Overflow for Teams. Upvoting helps exceptional content rise to the top and bring awareness to useful responses. Answer a question to share your knowledge with the world or in private with your team. Tags help make information searchable and find answers that are important to you. Accept the answer which solved your problem to let others benefit from the valuable information. Our reputation system rewards both the new & experienced based on contribution and activity. Create an account Learn and grow with Stack Overflow Write the script of the future Get your coding questions answered to learn, build, and level up whether you’re beginning with JavaScript or a React professional. Support open source Reach users of your project by following tags, answering newcomer questions, and empowering experts in the community. Read the curl project creator’s story. Acquire and share knowledge Answer questions and gain insights from an audience of developers using your technology on Stack Overflow. Find career opportunities Create a profile that shows off your expertise and credentials to help you make your next move. Start your Developer Story. Looking for a job? Browse jobs by technology Browse jobs by salary Browse jobs by visa sponsorship Browse remote-friendly jobs View all jobs Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin Software Quality Assurance & Testing Sound Design Windows Phone more (28) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Video Production Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law Physical Fitness Gardening & Landscaping Parenting more (10) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Chinese Language French Language German Language Biblical Hermeneutics History Spanish Language Islam Русский язык Russian Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair Board & Card Games Bricks Homebrewing Martial Arts The Great Outdoors Poker Chess Sports more (16) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy Linguistics Psychology & Neuroscience Computational Science more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2020 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2020.6.29.37151 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled