Nile River dam row: Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan make draft deal - BBC News , Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help Sign inNotifications Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds More Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC , Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help Sign inNotifications Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds More Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC News BBC News Navigation Home Video World selected UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures Reality Check Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say More sections World selected Africa selected Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada Nile River dam row: Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan make draft deal 16 January 2020 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Copy this link Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Related Topics River Nile dam dispute Image copyright Reuters Image caption The Grand Renaissance Dam is a source of national pride for Ethiopia Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan have reached an initial deal on the filling and operation of what will be Africa's biggest hydro-electric dam. The three nations agreed, following a meeting in Washington DC, that the mega dam on the River Nile should be filled in stages during the rainy season. Ethiopia, which is building the dam, wants to start generating electricity as soon as possible. But Egypt is concerned about its water supplies if it is filled too fast. Africa Live: Updates on this and other stories Why the Nile could see a 'water war' The preliminary agreement, brokered by US treasury secretary and the World Bank president, is short on details, says the BBC's Emmanuel Igunza. Some delicate negotiations will be needed before the Grand Renaissance Dam agreement is finalised later this month, he says. Is this a breakthrough? Negotiators are presenting this as a win-win for both Egypt and Ethiopia. There have been fears the countries could be drawn into war if it is unresolved. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Egypt considers reduction of the Nile flow as an existential threat According to the joint statement, filling the dam in stages during the July and August wet season will allow for Ethiopia's "early generation of electricity" while "providing appropriate mitigation measures for Egypt and Sudan in case of severe droughts". Ethiopia, which began construction of the $4bn (£3bn) dam in 2011 on the Blue Nile, a tributary that contributes 85% of the Nile waters, has always said it wants the dam to be filled within six years. Egypt has maintained that a longer period - of between 10 and 21 years - would be better so that the water flow is not drastically reduced. No time period is specified in the preliminary agreement. What happens next? The dam is already 80% complete, and it looks like Ethiopia will start filling it according to the schedule it has always planned. The final deal is expected to be signed on 28-29 January, when foreign and water ministers from the three countries meet again in the US capital. It is hoped they can sell the final text to their governments to end the tensions. But the main question is whether Egypt will be satisfied with the guarantees given by Ethiopia on the amount of water to be released during periods of drought. The deal may also have a bearing on how the other eight countries on the Nile Basin choose to exploit the River Nile in the future. How dependent is Egypt on the Nile? Very. Most of Egypt is arid with almost no rainfall and relies on the Nile for 90% of its water. Africa's longest river flows through the city of Aswan around 920km (570 miles) south of the capital Cairo. One of the North African country's other main concerns is that if the water flow drops, it could affect Lake Nasser, the reservoir behind Egypt's Aswan Dam, even though it only accounts for a small share of Egypt's electricity. So these negotiations over the future of the Nile River's waters are considered a matter of survival for millions of Egyptians. What is at stake for Ethiopia? Ethiopia considers the dam a matter of sovereignty and has been critical of what it believes is foreign interference in the matter. It started building its dam at the start of the Arab Spring in March 2011 without consulting Egypt. It refused to be bound a 1929 treaty that gave Egypt and Sudan rights to almost all the Nile's water without considering upstream countries. The dam, with a capacity to generate a massive 6,000 MW of electricity, is at the heart of the country's manufacturing and industrial dreams. Ethiopia has an acute shortage of electricity, with 65% of its population not connected to the grid. The energy generated will be enough to have its citizens connected and sell the surplus power to neighbouring countries, including Sudan, South Sudan, Kenya, Djibouti and Eritrea. Explore the Nile with 360 video Media playback is unsupported on your device Join BBC reporter Alastair Leithead and his team, travelling in 2018 from the Blue Nile's source to the sea - through Ethiopia and Sudan into Egypt. This 360° video is a version of the first VR documentary series from BBC News. To view the full films, click here. Correction 22 January 2020: This article has been updated to reflect that the Aswan Dam only accounts for a small share of Egypt's electricity. Related Topics Nile River Nile dam dispute Sudan Egypt Ethiopia Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn More on this story The 'water war' brewing over the new River Nile dam 24 February 2018 Ethiopia country profile 24 June 2019 Egypt country profile 7 January 2019 Around the BBC Africa Today podcasts Africa Motorbike taxi rider sets himself on fire 'over bribe' 3 July 2020 From the section Africa Full article Motorbike taxi rider sets himself on fire 'over bribe' Ghana minister resigns for breaking quarantine rules 3 July 2020 Full article Ghana minister resigns for breaking quarantine rules 'I wanted to take my culture and make it represent me now' 3 July 2020 Full article 'I wanted to take my culture and make it represent me now' From Around the Web Most Computer Owners Don't Know This Trick (Do It Today) Security Savers Online Sale is on 30%-70% off H&M Digital Transformation Courses in Cairo Might Surprise You Digital Transformation Courses | Search Ads California Real Estate Prices Might Surprise You California Real Estate [Pics] Rude Mom Keeps Blocking Builder's Truck So He Teaches Her an Expensive Lesson Articlesvally [Pics] Mother Kicked Out Of Water Park For Her Attire xfreehub Promoted content by Outbrain Top Stories England lockdown easing 'biggest step yet' - PM Boris Johnson says the public must not let businesses down when they reopen on Saturday. 3 July 2020 Redskins agree review of controversial name 3 July 2020 England’s quarantine-free list of places published 3 July 2020 Features Why this 4 July will be unlike any other Outrage as judge calls alleged rape victim 'unbecoming' Video Protest, rally or eating out - Where is riskier? Advertisement Finding the 'invisible' millions who are not on maps Deciding who lives and dies in a Cape Town township Sky is the limit for Pakistan's metal artist TikTok's Boogaloo extremism problem Weekly quiz: Which city had a coronavirus 'farewell' bash? Africa's top shots: Starting blocks and independence heroes Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Full article Lyrics quiz Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Full article Feeling hot Most Read Most Read 1 White couple charged for threatening black family 2 Coronavirus: England’s quarantine-free list of countries published 3 Coronavirus: England lockdown easing 'biggest step yet', says PM 4 Supermarkets snub coconut goods picked by monkeys 5 Washington Redskins agree review of controversial team name 6 Coronavirus: What are the UK's travel rules and which countries can you visit? 7 Leicester lockdown: New laws come into force 8 Coronavirus: Evening update as PM urges people to act 'safely' in lockdown easing 9 Coronavirus: What are the new rules when pubs reopen? 10 France's Macron picks Jean Castex as PM after Philippe resigns Info/CaptionWhy you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture Music TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised Newsletters Advertise with us AdChoices / Do Not Sell My InfoCopyright © 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.