data structures - How to calculate time complexity? - Stack Overflow , Stack Overflow Products Customers Use cases Log in Sign up , Stack Overflow Products Customers Use cases Log in Sign up By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Home Public Stack Overflow Tags Users Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams What’s this? Free 30 Day Trial How to calculate time complexity? Ask Question Asked 3 years, 11 months ago Active 3 years, 11 months ago Viewed 104 times This question shows research effort; it is useful and clear 2 This question does not show any research effort; it is unclear or not useful Bookmark this question. Show activity on this post. I've gone through some basic concepts of calculating time complexities. I would like to know the time complexity of the code that follows. I think the time complexity would be O(log3n*n2). It may still be wrong and I want to know the exact answer and how to arrive at the same. Thank you :)   function(int n){
     if(n == 1) return;
     for(int i = 1; i <= n; i++)
        for(int j = 1; j <= n; j++)
           printf("*");
     function(n-3);
  }
 data-structures time-complexity share | improve this question | follow Follow this question to receive notifications | edited Jul 9 '16 at 15:09 display-name-is-missing 4,65444 gold badges2323 silver badges3939 bronze badges asked Jul 8 '16 at 14:53 Raghav RaghavendraRaghav Raghavendra 2333 bronze badges add a comment | 1 Answer 1 Active Oldest Votes This answer is useful 4 This answer is not useful Say thanks for this answer. 0 0 others reacted with thanks. Show activity on this post. Two nested loops with n iterations give O(n^2). Recursion calls the function itself for O(n)-time since it decreases n for the constant 3, thus it's called n/3 + 1 = O(n) times. In total, it's O(n^3). The logarithm constant in your result would be in case that function is called with the value of n/3. share | improve this answer | follow Follow this answer to receive notifications | edited Jul 8 '16 at 15:17 answered Jul 8 '16 at 15:10 karastojkokarastojko 98599 silver badges1212 bronze badges If n is divided by 3 instead of subtraction, then is his answer correct? – Manoj Feb 10 '17 at 18:43 add a comment | Your Answer Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged data-structures time-complexity or ask your own question. The Overflow Blog Nobody has to lose in work/life balance How Stack Overflow hires engineers Featured on Meta New post lock available on meta sites: Policy Lock Feedback post: New moderator reinstatement and appeal process revisions Data validation & background for the Thank You Reaction feature test 2020 Moderator Election Q&A - Question Collection Looking for a job? Senior Android Engineer - Cairo - Egypt Vezeeta Masr Al Jadidah, Egyptandroidmobile dismiss this job Full Stack Software Engineer (Node.js, React, AWS) - Remote Deep Consulting Solutions No office location $20k - $80k Remotejavascriptnode.js dismiss this job Full-Stack Developer (Elixir/ Ruby) Mindvalley No office location $26k - $48k Remotemysqlruby dismiss this job Senior Software Development Engineer Pixelogic Media Madinet Al Eelam, Egyptjavajavascript dismiss this job Principal Software Development Engineer Pixelogic Media Madinet Al Eelam, Egyptjavareactjs dismiss this job TypeScript Full-Stack Developer FirstBlood No office location €11k - €46k Remoteangulartypescript dismiss this job Backend Software Engineer, PHP (Remote) Automattic No office location Remotejavascriptmysql dismiss this job Staff Software Development Engineer Pixelogic Media Madinet Al Eelam, Egyptjavareactjs dismiss this job View more jobs on Stack Overflow Related 1922How do I sort a list of dictionaries by a value of the dictionary? 4027How do I check if an array includes a value in JavaScript? 1292How can you profile a Python script? 893How to find time complexity of an algorithm 1807How to remove a key from a Python dictionary? 132Why is the time complexity of both DFS and BFS O( V + E ) 0map.find() time complexity 1time complexity for code and an order of magnitude improvement 5Calculate the time complexity of the following function Hot Network Questions Why do cloud compute instances spin up VMs and not containers? Print a tongue twister! How many numbers can we make? Can I oil a push button light switch? Pseudo Force and Inertial and Non-Inertial frames What is the suggested best practice for changing a user's email address? Difference between "fuggire" "sfuggire" "scappare" "correre" Are Alabama students throwing COVID parties to intentionally get infected? What coastal creature leaves braid-like trace that has clear landing and take off points? How to ask guests not to bring alchohol as host gifts Is there an elegant and fast way to test for the 1-bits in an integer to be in a compact region? Where does the expected value definition come from? How to choose resistor values in op-amps Intuitive explanation of "Statistical Inference" Math mode does not recognize color Do opportunity attacks have disadvantage if I use my action to Dodge and then move out of melee range? Is it legal to steal the American flag from the moon? Estimate on Mobius function What is the probability of different public key hash that produce the same checksum value Pythagorean quilts JavaScript get string "-" using only these three symbols Define commands without the need for brackets Can a changeling increase their Charisma by +3 at character creation? What's a word for the exact opposite of regret? more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Disable Responsiveness Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2020 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2020.7.3.37177 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled