Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia ,  , Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,092,869 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article Lythronax skeleton among those of other tyrannosaurs Lythronax is a genus of tyrannosaurid dinosaur that lived in North America around 80.6–79.9 million years ago. Size estimates for Lythronax have ranged between 5 and 8 m (16 and 26 ft) in length, and between 0.5 and 2.5 t (1,100 and 5,500 lb) in weight. It was a heavily built tyrannosaurid; as a member of that group, it would have had small, two-fingered forelimbs, strong hindlimbs, and a very robust skull. The rear part of the skull of Lythronax appears to have been very broad, with eye sockets that faced forwards like those of Tyrannosaurus. Lythronax is the oldest known member of the family Tyrannosauridae, and it is thought to have been more basal than Tyrannosaurus. Due to its age, Lythronax is important for understanding the evolutionary origins of tyrannosaurids, including the development of their anatomical specializations. The forward-facing eyes of Lythronax gave it depth perception, which may have been useful during pursuit predation or ambush predation. (Full article...) Recently featured: Sega Adore (The Smashing Pumpkins album) SMS Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse Archive By email More featured articles Did you know ... Heinrich Schütz House ... that Heinrich Schütz House (pictured) in Bad Köstritz, the inn where composer Heinrich Schütz was born, is now a museum and concert venue? ... that Pierre Schlumberger ran the family business, was a "visionary" art collector, and hosted guests including Audrey Hepburn, Yves Saint Laurent, Andy Warhol, and Rudolf Nureyev? ... that The Biafra Story by Frederick Forsyth was reportedly one of the earliest eyewitness accounts of the Nigerian Civil War? ... that Tracy R. Norris, the first female commander of the Texas Military Department, has masters degrees from Florida State University, the University of Texas, and the United States Army War College? ... that London subsidized the rest of the UK by £38.6 billion in the 2016–17 fiscal year? ... that J. Leo Hafen was excommunicated from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for being associated with a religious group practicing wife sacrifice? ... that the banteng is the second endangered species to be successfully cloned, and the first clone to survive beyond infancy? ... that Peter the Great experienced "a riotous and revelling Christmas" in London in 1697? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news COVID-19 pandemic Disease Virus Testing Timeline By location Impact Notable deaths Portal Crew Dragon launch SpaceX's Crew Dragon and Falcon 9 make their first crewed launch (pictured) for NASA. Protests and riots break out across the United States following the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis. Costa Rica becomes the first Central American country to legalise same-sex marriage. A Pakistan International Airlines passenger aircraft crashes in Karachi, killing ninety-seven people. Recent deaths: Héctor Suárez Carlo Ubbiali Wes Unseld Arrogate Silver Donald Cameron Osia Lewis Other recent events Nominate an article On this day June 4: Anniversary of Khomeini's Death in Iran (1989) Roquefort cheese 1411 – King Charles VI of France granted a monopoly to the people of Roquefort-sur-Soulzon for the ripening of Roquefort cheese (example pictured). 1561 – The spire of Old St Paul's Cathedral in London was destroyed by fire, probably caused by lightning. 1920 – The Kingdom of Hungary lost 72 percent of its territory and 64 percent of its population with the signing of the Treaty of Trianon in Paris. 1940 – Second World War: The remaining Allied forces protecting the Dunkirk evacuation surrendered, ending the Battle of Dunkirk; in response, British prime minister Winston Churchill gave a speech in which he declared "We shall fight on the beaches". 1974 – Major League Baseball's Cleveland Indians hosted Ten Cent Beer Night, but had to forfeit the game to the Texas Rangers due to rioting by drunken fans. Antoine, Duke of Lorraine (b. 1489) Johan Rudolph Thorbecke (d. 1872) Rodolfo Quezada Toruño (d. 2012) More anniversaries: June 3 June 4 June 5 Archive By email List of historical anniversaries Today's featured picture Ray Strachey (4 June 1887 – 16 July 1940) was a British feminist politician, mathematician, engineer, artist and writer. For most of her life, Strachey worked for women's suffrage organisations, starting when she was studying mathematics at Cambridge, during which time she took part in the Mud March of February 1907. Her ambition to become an engineer was abandoned when she married Oliver Strachey, a civil servant and cryptographer, in 1911; she continued to take an interest in the role of women in engineering, and campaigned on behalf of the Society of Women Welders in 1920 for women to be permitted to remain in the trade. After World War I, women were granted the vote and permitted to stand for parliament, and she stood as an independent parliamentary candidate in Brentford and Chiswick at the general elections of 1918, 1922 and 1923, without success. Photograph credit: unknown; restored by Adam Cuerden Recently featured: Anna Palm de Rosa Fractional currency Southern plains grey langur Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 6,092,869 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: العربية Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Svenska Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 More than 250,000 articles: Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bân-lâm-gú Български Català Čeština Dansk Esperanto Euskara فارسی‎ עברית 한국어 Magyar Norsk Bokmål Română Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe More than 50,000 articles: Asturianu Bosanski Eesti Ελληνικά English (Simple English) Galego Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvių മലയാളം Norsk nynorsk Slovenčina Slovenščina ไทย Complete list of Wikipedias Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=956868703" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Wikipedia store Contribute Help Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Languages العربية Български Bosanski Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ქართული Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Română Русский Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Print/export Download as PDF Printable version This page was last edited on 15 May 2020, at 19:17 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view