Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia ,  , Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,094,363 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article Demetrius III's portrait on a tetradrachm Demetrius III Eucaerus was a Seleucid ruler who reigned as King of Syria between 96 and 87 BC. He was a son of Antiochus VIII and, most likely, his Egyptian wife Tryphaena. After his father was assassinated in 96 BC, Demetrius III took control of Damascus. In 89 BC, he invaded Judaea and crushed the forces of its king, Alexander Jannaeus. By 87 BC, Demetrius III had most of Syria under his authority. He attempted to appease the public by promoting the importance of the local Semitic gods, and he might have given Damascus the dynastic name Demetrias. By late 87 BC, Demetrius III attacked his brother, and rival to the throne, Philip I, in the city of Beroea, where Philip I's allies called on the Parthians for help. The allied forces routed Demetrius III and besieged him in his camp; he was forced to surrender and spent the rest of his life in exile in Parthia. Philip I took Antioch, while Antiochus XII, another brother of Demetrius III, took Damascus. (Full article...) Recently featured: Chestnuts Long Barrow Lythronax Sega Archive By email More featured articles Did you know ... Primary Jain symbol ... that the ancient Indian religion Jainism (primary symbol pictured) holds that the universe was not created? ... that the grand marble staircase entrance to Sony Hall was restored in 2013, but painted to appear more dilapidated than it truly was? ... that Joe Davis, champion from 1927 to 1946, remains the only undefeated player at the World Snooker Championship? ... that medical supply company Prestige Ameritech offered to manufacture millions of N95 masks in January, but was rebuffed by the U.S. government? ... that "Ye Choirs of New Jerusalem" has been described as the "only medieval resurrection hymn still widely sung"? ... that the 1964 Elektron satellites, launched in pairs to simultaneously measure the upper and lower Van Allen belts, marked the first time multiple satellites were orbited on a single Soviet rocket? ... that Maria Paasche helped Jews and intellectuals escape Nazi Germany by taking them to Prague on her motorcycle? ... that American rapper 6ix9ine requested permission from a judge to record the music video for "Gooba" while under house arrest? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news COVID-19 pandemic Disease Virus Testing Timeline By location Impact Notable deaths Portal Crew Dragon launch SpaceX's Crew Dragon and Falcon 9 make their first crewed launch (pictured) for NASA. Protests and riots break out across the United States following the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis. Costa Rica becomes the first Central American country to legalise same-sex marriage. A Pakistan International Airlines passenger aircraft crashes in Karachi, killing ninety-seven people. Ongoing: Hong Kong protests Recent deaths: Marcello Abbado Bruce Jay Friedman Héctor Suárez Carlo Ubbiali Wes Unseld Arrogate Nominate an article On this day June 6: National Day of Sweden Novarupta's lava dome 1822 – Alexis St. Martin, a Canadian voyageur, was accidentally shot in the stomach; investigations of his injury led to a greater understanding of the processes of digestion. 1882 – The Shewan army defeated Gojjame forces at the Battle of Embabo, an event that contributed to the supremacy of Shewa within the Ethiopian Empire. 1912 – The largest volcanic eruption of the 20th century began, forming Novarupta (lava dome pictured) in the Alaska Peninsula. 1894 – Colorado Governor Davis Hanson Waite ordered his state militia to protect and support the miners engaged in the Cripple Creek miners' strike. 1944 – World War II: The largest amphibious military operation in history began with Allied troops landing on the beaches of Normandy in France. Marcellin Champagnat (d. 1840) Henry Allingham (b. 1896) Natalie Morales (b. 1972) More anniversaries: June 5 June 6 June 7 Archive By email List of historical anniversaries Today's featured picture Sinustrombus sinuatus, the laciniate conch, is a species of marine gastropod mollusc in the family Strombidae. It is native to the tropical Indo-Pacific region, where it lives on the seabed at depths down to about 20 m (66 ft). This photograph shows apertural (left) and dorsal (right) views of an empty S. sinuatus shell, 83 mm (3.3 in) in length, which may have washed up on a beach. In life, the aperture would be closed by a horny operculum when the animal was not feeding on algae or detritus, or moving about. The operculum and the finger-like processes on the lip of the shell can be used to right itself when it has been overturned, and the operculum and muscular foot are used to flip itself along, in locomotion or defence. Photograph credit: George Chernilevsky Recently featured: Perast Ray Strachey Anna Palm de Rosa Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 6,094,363 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: العربية Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Svenska Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 More than 250,000 articles: Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bân-lâm-gú Български Català Čeština Dansk Esperanto Euskara فارسی‎ עברית 한국어 Magyar Norsk Bokmål Română Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe More than 50,000 articles: Asturianu Bosanski Eesti Ελληνικά English (Simple English) Galego Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvių മലയാളം Norsk nynorsk Slovenčina Slovenščina ไทย Complete list of Wikipedias Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=956868703" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Wikipedia store Contribute Help Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Languages العربية Български Bosanski Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ქართული Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Română Русский Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Print/export Download as PDF Printable version This page was last edited on 15 May 2020, at 19:17 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view