Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia ,  , Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,093,541 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article The Chestnuts Long Barrow is a chambered tomb located near the village of Addington in the south-eastern English county of Kent. Constructed during Britain's Early Neolithic period, it belongs to a regional style of barrows produced in the vicinity of the River Medway. The long barrows built in this area are now known as the Medway Megaliths. Chestnuts Long Barrow lies near both Addington Long Barrow and Coldrum Long Barrow on the western side of the river, and was built on land previously inhabited in the Mesolithic period. It consisted of an earthen mound, estimated to have been 15 metres (50 feet) in length, with a chamber built from sarsen megaliths on its eastern end. Human remains placed within this chamber during the Neolithic period were found alongside pottery sherds, stone arrow heads, and a clay pendant. The mound gradually eroded away and was gone by the twentieth century, leaving only the ruined stone chamber. (Full article...) Recently featured: Lythronax Sega Adore (The Smashing Pumpkins album) Archive By email More featured articles Did you know ... Laura Judd and her daughter in 1850 ... that American missionary Laura Fish Judd (pictured) taught a queen how to make dresses, co-founded the first school for Hawaiian children, and wrote about Hawaiian dining etiquette and cuisine? ... that ant gardens are cultivated by several species of ant, including Crematogaster carinata? ... that Oasis frontman Noel Gallagher discovered a song to release while under lockdown, which his brother called "not worth a wank"? ... that Sarah Fisher, the first woman to claim a pole position in American open-wheel racing, began competing at age five? ... that the Welsh fiscal deficit was higher than Greece's throughout the Greek government-debt crisis? ... that the Canadian film I've Heard the Mermaids Singing was the second production screened at 1987 film festivals to have a title taken from T. S. Eliot's poem "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"? ... that U.S. president Donald Trump dismissed five inspectors general in the space of six weeks? ... that in 1914, the Oxford historian L. G. Wickham Legg contributed to Why We Are at War: Great Britain's Case, then joined the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news COVID-19 pandemic Disease Virus Testing Timeline By location Impact Notable deaths Portal Crew Dragon launch SpaceX's Crew Dragon and Falcon 9 make their first crewed launch (pictured) for NASA. Protests and riots break out across the United States following the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis. Costa Rica becomes the first Central American country to legalise same-sex marriage. A Pakistan International Airlines passenger aircraft crashes in Karachi, killing ninety-seven people. Ongoing: Hong Kong protests Recent deaths: Marcello Abbado Bruce Jay Friedman Héctor Suárez Carlo Ubbiali Wes Unseld Arrogate Nominate an article On this day June 5: Constitution Day in Denmark; Naksa Day in Palestinian communities (1967) Antonio Luna 663 – The Daming Palace became the government seat and royal residence of the Tang empire during Emperor Gaozong's reign. 1610 – The masque Tethys' Festival was performed at the Palace of Whitehall to celebrate the investiture of Henry Frederick as Prince of Wales. 1899 – Filipino general Antonio Luna (pictured) was assassinated in the midst of the Philippine–American War. 1963 – The arrest of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini for publicly denouncing Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi sparked protests in Iran. 2001 – Tropical Storm Allison made landfall in Texas, causing approximately $8.5 billion in damage, making it the costliest Atlantic tropical cyclone that was never a major hurricane. Ya'qub ibn al-Layth al-Saffar (d. 879) Johann Kuhnau (d. 1722) William Scamp (b. 1801) More anniversaries: June 4 June 5 June 6 Archive By email List of historical anniversaries From today's featured list Cime de la Bonette The highest point of elevation reached in the Tour de France is 2,802 metres (9,193 ft), at the Cime de la Bonette (pictured) in the Alps, a short loop road that forks from the summit of the Col de la Bonette, in the 1962 race. The Tour de France is an annual men's multiple-stage bicycle race primarily held in France, and generally considered to be the most famous bicycle race in the world. Its founder, Henri Desgrange, was passionate about taking the Tour up to the highest reachable points of elevation in the Alps and Pyrenees using the most difficult routes. The highest point of the first Tour de France in 1903 was the summit of the 1,161-metre-high (3,809 ft) Col de la République mountain pass in the Mont Pilat area of the Massif Central highland region. The race first reached high altitude on the ninth edition in 1910, when it passed the 2,115-metre-high (6,939 ft) Col du Tourmalet in the Pyrenees. (Full list...) Recently featured: Savilian Professor of Geometry Banana Fish episodes Songs recorded by the Beatles Archive More featured lists Today's featured picture Perast is an old town on the Bay of Kotor in Montenegro. It is situated a few kilometres northwest of Kotor and is noted for its proximity to the islets of Saint George and Our Lady of the Rocks. Its history dates back to at least 1336, when it was the site of a small fishing village with a shipyard, but over time it became an important maritime centre. It prospered in the 16th century, when it was loyal to the Venetians at a time when the Republic of Venice and the Ottoman Empire were struggling for supremacy in the area. The wealthy merchants and sea captains built themselves grand palaces, mostly in the Baroque style, and there was a renowned naval college. Nowadays, the town relies on tourism for its income, and the number of residents has dwindled; it had a population of 274 at the last census. Photograph credit: Marcin Konsek Recently featured: Ray Strachey Anna Palm de Rosa Fractional currency Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 6,093,541 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: العربية Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Svenska Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 More than 250,000 articles: Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bân-lâm-gú Български Català Čeština Dansk Esperanto Euskara فارسی‎ עברית 한국어 Magyar Norsk Bokmål Română Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe More than 50,000 articles: Asturianu Bosanski Eesti Ελληνικά English (Simple English) Galego Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvių മലയാളം Norsk nynorsk Slovenčina Slovenščina ไทย Complete list of Wikipedias